As a DevOps engineer you need to collect metrics about your linux server. Unfortunately you cannot use any monitoring solution and need to implement something by your own.

Implement a script which prints basic information about your OS to console.

Package your service into Docker container (Optional).

Write README.md file with documentation about your script/container.

Publish the project to GitHub.

Send us a link to GitHub repository with your project.

Metrics collection script
You may use any language of your choice to implement the script (despite this we recommend to use either Python or Ruby). 


The script should accept a single parameter to specify which metrics set to print:

cpu - prints CPU metrics

mem - prints RAM metrics

CPU Metrics
$ ./metrics cpu


Sample output:

  system.cpu.idle 78.8

  system.cpu.user 17.3

  system.cpu.guest 0.0

  system.cpu.iowait 1.3

  system.cpu.stolen 0.0

  system.cpu.system 2.5

Memory Metrics
$ ./metrics mem


Sample output:

virtual total 16712351744

virtual used 9190146048

virtual free 1391624192

virtual shared 287655116

swap total 0

swap used 0

swap free 0

Docker (optional)
You need to describe a Dockerfile to package and execute your script. 


There are several challenges you may face:

How to display information about processes running on the host machine from within container environment (think about pid namespaces).

How to display usernames for processes running on the host machine from within container environment (think how linux resolves uid to username and docker volumes).

Readme.MD
You need to describe how to use your script or Docker image. Look at https://hub.docker.com for examples of docker images documentation.

GitHub
You need to use GIT while implementing your project. Use your own account at GitHub (or create a new one if you still do not have one) and publish your project there. Send us a link to your project.

Reference Materials
If you decide to use Python for this project we recommend to look at https://psutil.readthedocs.io - cross-platform library for retrieving information on running processes and system utilization
